---
title: Switching to online parents' evenings
---

# Switching to online parents’ evenings

<div class="resource-tag govuk-!-margin-bottom-9"><span>Example</span></div>

{inset-text}

## School details

**School name:** Prince Henry’s Grammar School

**Location:** Leeds, West Yorkshire

**Phase:** Secondary (11-18)

**Number of pupils:** 1600

**Contact details:** <info@princehenrys.co.uk>

{/inset-text}

---

<div class="govuk-grid-row dfe-width-container">
  <div class="govuk-grid-column-two-thirds">
    <div class="info-box">
      <div class="info-box__corner">
      </div>
      <h2 class="govuk-heading-m">
        Impact and outcomes
      </h2>
      <p>
        There were far more benefits to this system than drawbacks. There was a
        higher attendance from parents and the majority of stakeholders when
        questioned were keen to keep it post Covid. It did take a bit of
        adjusting for staff in that they needed to get straight to the
        important parts of the conversation as small talk simply ran the clock
        down. If introducing the system for the first time, it would be worth
        considering some training or run-throughs with staff just so they get a
        feel hwo to use the time productively.
      </p>
      <p>
        ‘I feel very stringly that it is much less stressful for all parties. It
        ensures all staff/parents stick to time meaning all those with an
        appointment do get a fiar equal opportunity to talk. So much time is
        saved by not moving aroud so that 5 minutes is usually more than
        sufficient time for productive discussion.’ (PHGS classroom teacher)
      </p>
      <p>
        ‘This really helped with the timings and engagements of parents, and it
        gives more flexibility as a parent of young children myself.’ (PHGS
        classroom teacher)
      </p>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

## Background from Claire Willis, Assistant headteacher

{inset-text}
Prince Henry’s is a highly respected school within Leeds with an established
culture in which staff and pupils have excellent relationships based on mutual
respect. School leaders and governors are ambitious, and parents recognise the
quality of teaching their children are receiving and the strong behaviour
systems that are in place.

Pre-COVID 19, parents’ evenings followed the standard format of pre-booked face
to face conversations with parents. Had there been no pandemic, the process
would not have changed because parents reported they were happy with this
format. As circumstances changed, the school quickly began to explore how they
could ensure parents were kept up to date with their child's performance,
thereby maintaining the very effective school to parent communication they had
established. We used an IT based system that enabled parents to book
appointments with those staff they wish to see at a time that suited their home
and work schedule, and this proved effective in reducing workload for staff as
well.

{/inset-text}

## What we did and why it works

We investigated a range of IT products, and finally bought into a commercial
cloud based program that facilitates an online video booking system. There are a
number of ways of doing this and it is up to an individual school to choose the
product that is best for them.

The system enables staff and parents to know when each appointment will start
and that it will finish on time through an on-screen countdown timer. Teachers
know when the appointment is coming to an end, unlike face to face parents’
evenings where one appointment rolls into someone else’s, resulting in the
following consultations often beginning on the wrong foot. This prevents
disgruntled parents who have been kept waiting and also the conflict of having
to dash aroud different areas of school for their different appointments. For
teaching staff, the new system enables appointments to transition smoothly from
one to the next as there is no logging in and out, just a seamless process.

This system also allows more than one parent to access the same appointment
which is helpful where one parent is working or there is shared parenting. It
offers a more productive use of time and a more confidential experience.

## A 10 point plan for online parents’ evenings

1. Identify a product that offers flexibility in booking and hosting parents’
   evenings. Out product allows us to set up the evening, then parents book on
   independently and staff and parents can log in fom any device on the evening.
2. Ensure this is up to date with accurate staff and student lists - taken from
   your Management Information System. Update this frequently.
